---
title: "Acknowledgments"
date: 2022-06-01
tags:
    - phd
categories:
- reflections
keywords:
    - phd
    - dissertation
    - gratitude
---

Growing up as a shy child, I always felt like an observer of human behavior, an outsider, rather than a participant. Finding *Gödel, Escher, Bach* on my dad's bookshelf and reading it at a young age gave me a certain comfort, that for all its complexities and paradoxes, the human mind is perhaps understandable through some kind of mathematical formulations. Years later, when Fei came to Beijing Normal University to give a lecture series, I learned for the first time about computational cognitive science that does just that (if you will allow the gross simplification). I'm grateful that Fei took me on this ride: Using computational modeling to study the human mind at Berkeley is my childhood dream coming true. Years before then, I'm grateful to have met my undergraduate advisor, Qingfen Hu, who opened the door to the wonders of cognitive development for me. Qingfen is also one of the most wholesome and generous human beings I've ever seen, who taught me that being kind is not a transaction you make when you have something to gain, but simply who you are. I was still far too shy when I first came to Berkeley. It wasn't until the end of grad school that I found my voice: Writing this dissertation felt like my coming of age in many ways.

I also thank for my committee members — Alison Gopnik, Mahesh Srinivasan, and Neil Bramley — for the practical advice and insights you gave me every time we met. Berkeley was and is also home to many other academic heroes of mine: Tom Griffiths, Tania Lombrozo, Celeste Kidd, Steve Piantadosi, Anne Collins, to name a few. I wish we had spoken more, but I'm thankful that I got to learn about your fascinating work that sheds light on what human cognition is capable of. 

"It takes a village to raise a child" — sometimes, there may not be a village at a particular point in time. I thank past myself for sticking it out. First week into Tom's computational modeling class in Fall 2016, I confided in a fellow student that I had no idea what was going on. That semester, I borrowed Tom's old MATLAB code to complete my final project (later published in the Proceedings of the 39th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society), of which I only had a "computational-level" understanding. I didn't anticipate that for nearly two years since then, I might be the only one left in the Developmental area working on computational models of higher-level cognition. I learned to implement Bayesian cognitive models after various false starts and cycling through a dozen of Bayesian statistics textbooks. If I could go back in time, I would have asked for more help; I won't choose solitary work over fruitful collaborations in  my future career again. But I'm grateful for what the struggle has shown me about what I can do in my own time of need.

Many research assistants and summer interns have helped me on this journey. I extend my sincerest gratitude to Anqi Li, Eliza Huang, Sophie Peeler, Shengyi Wu, Jessamine Li, Selena Cheng, Chelsea Leung, Nina Li, Stella Rue, among others. Anqi was my first RA, who taught me a great deal about working with children when I just started. Eliza was my first intern and I'm still amazed by her passion, intelligence, energy, and kindness. After an exhausting day testing at the Lawrence Hall of Science, she would still ask me a ton about science or suggest brilliant ideas for my work. Much to my surprise, Shengyi was still testing a child on Chinese New Years Eve. This dissertation wouldn't have gotten anywhere without their dedication, which I shall never take for granted. I also thank my labmates for countless thought-provoking discussions and useful suggestions over the years: Rongzhi Liu, Ruthe Foushee, Shaun O'Grady, Elena Luchkina, Stephanie Alderete, Roya Baharloo, Kaitlyn Tang, Emma Roth, Gwyneth Heuser, Harmonie Strohl, and Phyllis Lun.

The best decision I made in grad school was moving to Palo Alto at the beginning of the COVID pandemic. I have since made many new friends and reconnected with old friends in the tech industry and found where I belong, likely for the first time in life. Yishu — thank you for offering advice and suggestions (fresh out of the surgery room, later I learned) when I thought I was going to drop out of grad school, and for telling me how you already thought of me as a data scientist when plenty tried to discourage me, *"Every CS kid wants this job. Why can you get it?"* Wanqiao — you were the first data scientist to lend me a hand on a strange project (one that I still can't make sense of) and let me return the favor later, which made me realize data science is not so much about fancy modeling as it is about common sense, judgment, and camaraderie. Emma — thank you for making me feel valued and seen, and for the many insightful conversations about career, data science, and life. My internship mentor at Bombora, Nishan — thank you for trusting me with such a cool and challenging project, and for your timely encouragement and skillful guidance. Lingyan, Maggie, and Siyu — thank you for advocating for me whenever there was a good job opportunity, offering helpful tips when I was interviewing, and almost lending me money after hearing about my hardships at home. Kefan, Chicheng, Mingxi, and Larry --- thank you for the good games, dad jokes, random conversations, and letting me know that you care. Haley — thank you for introducing me to the art of ice-ream eating, and more seriously, for your perspective and open-mindedness. My fascination with cognitive science began with the wish and will to understand the human mind through the lens of mathematics, and it concluded with the wish and will to just be in this moment and enjoy. 

In the United States, only one in two PhD students completes grad school. I certainly wouldn't have seen the finishing line had Silvia Bunge not told me, *"You're our student and we'll do all we can to help you."* The only time I cried in the past 6 years, it was for her kindness. I thank Silvia and Julie Aranda for helping me out at the end of 2020 and making it possible for me to finish. 

Last but not the least, I thank the financial support from the Berkeley Fellowship for Graduate Study in 2016-2018 and my family over the years. As a child, my parents and I didn't really speak much — frankly, that was why I became intrigued by developmental psychology as an undergrad: I was curious how that relationship is like for somebody else. In the past year and a half, my dad was diagnosed with ALS, after which his health rapidly deteriorated. It wasn't until then that I realized how much impact he had on me: It was him who taught me how to write when I was in middle school, and writing is still one of the things I love the most; the many books he brought home for me ignited my interests in science, history, and philosophy, which last to this day. When I left home 6 years ago, I never thought there would come this day when I dedicate this dissertation to him.